Hey what's up everyone and welcome back to another video. So for the past couple of months
we've done a few different Python and Quarto-based tutorials. We started with a Quarto crash course
which covered kind of everything from the basics to some more advanced features, you know,
sprinkling a little bit of everything in between. And then we had a couple different tutorials on
more advanced concepts like parameterized reporting, converting Jupyter notebooks into
nice polished HTML reports, etc. In this video we're going to tie everything that we've done
in previous YouTube videos together with a nice looking website like the one you see on the screen.
So this is actually not only, you know, built with Quarto and Python but we can deploy it to a web
domain of our choice. So I picked QuartoIsFun.com and so basically with this website we have all
sorts of cool things. We got like a toggle menu here that has all the different assets that we
built in our previous videos. And if I click on any of these pages, like let's say Quarto crash
for example, it has a kind of about page and then we can kind of get into different details of things
that we built in that tutorial. So here's a dashboard. I guess some of the theming made this
a little hard to read but like we can basically show off all of this different type of analysis
that we've done. Show off another dashboard. You can show off the slideshow that was included in
the last video. All built with Python and Quarto. So we'll start with the basics of how to build
just a simple simple website with Quarto and Python. Then we'll slowly progress, see how we
can add sidebars like this, see we can add menus like this, add links over here, add tools like
GitHub links, YouTube links, LinkedIn links, a search bar so I can look up like dashboards and find
specific stuff related to dashboards in this series and more. I think it's a pretty cool way
to tie everything together so I'm excited to share it with all of you. Link to the code is in the
description. I've also linked the Quarto crash course video. That's probably a good place to get
started but you can also watch this video without seeing any of that as well. All right enough of me
talking though let's get into the video. With anything Quarto related I think a great place
to start is by going to the Posit Quarto website and here you have a ton of information. If we go
to the guide and we go down to websites we can look at creating a website here and find a lot of
useful information and if you ever forget like let's say how to add a sidebar, navbar, etc to your
website going to website navigation is the next spot you want to check out. A lot of useful stuff
here and this is always here as reference linked in the description and I think one cool thing to
note is that this website was built using the same techniques that we will show. It's a little
bit more sophisticated but if you click on like edit this page and just go to Quarto web you can
see all the same types of things that ultimately renders the Quarto website and so if you ever need
inspiration on how to do something you can check out their Quarto.yaml file and see a lot of
different details on how it's laid out. We'll start simpler though and kind of work our way
up there. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and open up a terminal and I'm going to
just basically open up a blank directory that I can write and build my website. So I'm going to do
this with the terminal but you can do this however you normally make your directories. So I'm going
to go into my code directory. I have a folder called 2025 and I have a folder called Quarto. I'm
going to go there and make a directory called simple website. I'm going to navigate into that
and I will open up VS Code here and so now we have our simple website repository and to get
started I will create just a couple QMD files. I'll call this first one index.qmd
and I'll just insert here insert some random text here.
Another heading I just accidentally put on caps lock and some more text here. I feel like everyone
always asks I'm using GitHub Copilot to do these autocompletes that you see popping up on the
screen. So we have our index.qmd file. As was seen in the crash course if you set up the VS Code
Quarto extension you have the ability to render files like this and preview them in your VS Code
editor. So we see our markdown code there. Okay not too interesting yet but let's add some more
but let's add some more index.qmd files or not index.qmd but more qmd files. How about I do like
python example.qmd and in this file we will actually add some
python code so here's a python code example and we add our three quotes python and I will do
something like for i in range five print hello world. I'm going to print i as well.
Not that exciting of code but it will give you just a preview of what we can do.
Maybe we add one more code file. We will just do this like
I would call this dashboard.qmd and I'll actually make this a more proper
quarto file. So title dashboard author geeth I was going to just replace my first and last
initials but we don't need to do that and then type or format dashboard.
I'm going to do the same thing. Don't worry about exactly the details here. I'm just trying to get some
simple example simple example code on the screen.
All right this will be really really exciting.
All right so if we run this dashboard example
okay
now this is really cool.
Sometimes you need to make sure you have the right Python version kind of running so I'm
going to specifically check my Quarto virtual machine.
So I did command shift p on my MacBook to allow me to switch. Okay here's a little little
dashboard. I think if I add another. I just want to show a dashboard off more properly.
Okay so here's a little dashboard. Not very exciting. Here's my Python example file. I run this.
Okay we got a little HTML file there. Nothing too crazy but this is now how we can start tying it
together as a website. So what we're going to do is we're going to add a file called
quarto.yaml and so it's underscore quarto.yaml and here we're going to want to first specify
that the project is a website and then we're going to start specifying some configuration.
And I think I actually want to do project website like this.
And as I mentioned before like I don't always remember the exact YAML configuration even though
like I just did this. Like use the documentation to your advantage.
Quarto website.
We're going to see how it's set up. Okay so project type website. Okay and then I will do
something like this just to start. So our file looks like this and we will now what you can do
to preview everything is you can go ahead and do quarto preview and if you have this quarto.yaml
file in here it will allow things to run. We don't have a file called about.qmd so I want
to just use our dashboard.qmv file and we can try this. Okay so we got our nice fun index.qmd
that's rendering there. If I click on dashboard we see that now our dashboard also loads in. So we
have two different pages here as well as a title. Title is not super descriptive but I could call
it something like quarto website example as our title. And now if we look back at our preview
we see that this switches. So you can choose to have a title or you could just choose to have the
different menu options here. If we wanted to add another page we can do that by adding just another
dash and we could add python example.qmd and now if we look at our website
we see here's a python code example. I don't really love this
drop down title so there's a few different ways we could change that.
So one would be going to the python example and specifically adding a file title using the quarto
yaml option. So if I did title simple or like html example and now we go back to our website
we see that it's changed here. There's also ways that you can specify this in the
drop down menu or the navbar menu. So if I go here what I could also do is I could do
href is python example and our title will specifically be
how about python simple. So before it was html example and now by specifying the title here I
guess this should be text. It's just going to be python simple and this will take precedent
over the title but it will default to the title if it can't find anything. So we click on this
we go to our home index page index.qmd. If I click home we're also at that index.qmd. If I
click dashboard we see that it changes to our dashboard.html page. If I click python simple
it renders a python example.html all from the qmd files that we have available to us. By default
this search bar is here so that's pretty cool to see but you could also disable that if you wanted
to. You could do like search false and that will disable the search bar. I don't know why you would
want to disable a search bar but good to know. Other things you could do so here we have the
navbar but you might also want a sidebar. And so with our sidebar we might want to have some
contents or maybe we start with let's look at our options for a sidebar because again I don't
remember what they are off the top of my head but if you go to website navigation on the Cordo docs
and you look for sidebar so here we're looking at I think the top navigation so this navbar
but we could also go to side navigation here see sidebar
and we could play around stuff this way so I'm going to kind of copy this
I'm going to go down and you can have both a sidebar and a navbar
and we see this let's see I'm going to just do the same type of files like dashboard
example I can write whatever text I want here you href that's going to be dashboard.qmd
and then like simple python example that's going to point to python example.qmd
and we see that everything's kind of re-rendering in the background if we go back to our website
we now see that we have two different things that we can click on
go home so here's our little sidebar for some reason the python simple python example isn't
rendering not quite sure how it's because I did section here this should be text
now we can click on this cool and we can get even more sophisticated with this
so let's say we wanted it to be a drop down of multiple things
well we could keep adding corto files into this
so if I added now instead of just straight text we added a section
I could actually not include let's say like we don't want to have this be clickable
I could just have some contents under the basic section and there's a dot you could list
individual qmd files like this but you could also do something like just list all files
and there's a dot you could list individual qmd files like this but you could also do something
like just list all files all qmd files get them all and put them under the basics so if we look
at this go to html example it's going to grab any qmd file it can find other than the index.qmd
and it's going to put them here
so you could have links multiple multiple of the same links so like this link and this
link go to the same spot but it's all under this drop down and it's expanded out and you
can just keep nesting these drop downs we'll see some more sophisticated examples of this
soon other things that we could do is we could start adding you know github links youtube links
etc but i think this is good for the basics let's start making this more interesting by actually
using the previous qmd files we did in the different tutorials that have been in this series
so to do to find the code you can go to this is going to be linked in the description as well
github.com slash keith galley slash quarto portfolio
and there's a ton of code here i recommend you know copying this and cloning it locally
to start out there'll be a branch called like starter code so if you don't want to see all the
finished corto.yml and kind of want to play around with things yourself you know look for the branch
starter code i'll also link that in the description for convenience let's see what we can do with this
starter code okay once you're on the starter branch or you can find it in the description
we're going to go back to visual studio code pull in my visual studio code real quick
and we see we have a bunch here so we have our corto.yml starter file we have a starter index.qmd
so i've kind of just linked it here with some descriptions of the different projects we've done
in this corto series but if we were to render this right now and there's a requirements.txt
so you can make sure that you have all the necessary libraries to run this by doing a
pip3-install requirements.txt i recommend maybe starting a virtual environment so i'm going to
activate my corto environment and then if i run this requirements.txt i can make sure
that i have everything and now if i run a corto preview
it's going to start rendering these different qmd files
and this is all our yaml file has right now so the website's probably not going to be that
interesting to start
yeah so very very basic you know these links i guess they work
but i don't know it doesn't it could be a lot better so how can we start adding more interesting
things to this well i think first off we could change up the theme so if we wanted a theme to
look more interesting we could go ahead and go in here and we could do format
theme and then we could specify something like copy
theme and then we could specify something like
cosmo i'm going to double check what how the theme is set
i think it was in that starter code theme okay format html and then theme like this
copy this if you had special css styles you could add them here i don't right now so i'm
going to just remove this and i guess i'll leave the table of contents i don't know what that will
look like in this base version of the website
base version of the website
so we have i guess our table of contents over here if it's helpful you can include it we only
have a single page so i don't really need the table of contents right now i'm going to just
get rid of this but we do see that with the theme cosmo i think things look a bit different right
this header bar is definitely different what other themes could we try out well if i look up
quarto themes we have some of these out of the box one that i liked i was solar but let's try
a couple i like the name sketchy sketchy slate and solar how about i try all of those sketchy
and this might actually look more interesting once we actually add some more stuff so maybe i
revisit the themes in a second
i think when i change the theme i think i need to re-render it or maybe oh maybe it's right there
oh wow that's sketchy geez so here's a you know if you wanted some character a little personality
you could use the sketchy version we could also try the slate see what that does oh that looks
really actually pretty cool i like the look of that a lot and i'm going to do another called
solar i think that looks quite nice as well
so you can play around with the different html themes here a lot of cool options
i'll leave it at solar for now
but as we start playing around with this let's add some other pages so i'm going to add a sidebar
and i want to add title will be python quarto
series
contents
and we can just start listing off different directories here so i could just literally do
to start you know contents is everything let's see what that does with our website
refresh this i feel like i messed something up again website navigation
i'm going to copy in the sidebar one more time
because our sidebar is not showing up maybe actually if i let's just
yeah sidebar is not showing up yet
i'm going to run it like this first i don't know if title actually
okay these qmd files aren't found
so we're going to have a section just called
everything
and the contents of the section everything will literally be just star
and then we're going to have a section called
the contents of the section everything will literally be just star
and there's no introduction qmd either so i'll just make this index.qmd or something like that
and see now we have our page and what's really cool is that when we do the star that asterisk
like this it's just basically looking for all renderable files so what is a render
renderable file well if i look up
some information here we see that corto input files.qmd.ipythonnotebook.md and.rmd
will automatically be rendered so when i specify something like
the asterisk here it's going to look for any types of those files even if they're nested
within like a different directory so like corto crash course etc and it's going to
automatically just kind of embed them in the sidebar here so we have everything and then
we could go into like corto crash course for example and then we could get all the different
files there so here's like the home page file and we see we get all the information there
one thing that's cool too is that let's say i didn't want to render this file a kind of strategic
thing that i did was i made this about file a markdown file no different just that i knew i
wasn't going to have any actual code in the about files so i didn't need the perks of corto markdown
specifically so what i could also do with my publish is i could specify i wanted all files
that end in qmd and you could make this even more sophisticated you could do like maybe you have a
special naming convention that starts with report dash anything dot qmd so there's a lot of different
ways you can play around with this but now if i do star dot qmd and we look at our website
if i go to corto crash course we now don't see that page that we initially did but i could get
to it if i linked this corto crash course tab with a specific href that gets to this page
so the way that we can do that is instead of just letting it render everything on its own you could
be a little bit more specific and do stuff like you know the section here is corto crash course
the contents will be everything in the corto crash course directory and then qmd files there
and the section will also point you to the specifically corto crash course
slash about dot md file so now if i run this
and you know go back to my home page and then click corto crash course
we see that it gets us to that page but we still have the drop down options one thing we see too
is that the drop downs are all showing by default but maybe you wouldn't want that one parameter we
have access to and the sidebar is i think it's called collapse level i can make this one and then
nothing really will show so nothing's showing here so it's the collapse level is how much
is expanded by default so it's i think default set to two so this is all showing another thing
that we see in here is that like we have two movie analysis movie data analysis so if we
wanted to switch things up we could specifically go into corto crash course we could go into
like let's say html report and i could do like movie data analysis html and i could also do movie
data analysis pdf switch up the titles and then if i look back at the website and refresh this
this might
the pdf might be weird because i think it's rendered a little bit differently
so if i do the corto preview again
and we look at this we now see pdf and html the different pages
and you can just kind of you know name your files as you need to as you as you see fit
um but it's cool that like you know the qmds automatically will render during this you know
website publishing process all right let's keep going other things you might want to do is maybe
add a tool bar so like i could add in my nav bar i could add tools and tools are just basically like
my github links let's say so i would want this to navigate to github.com slash keith galley
corto portfolio
and i would maybe also want to add a icon so these icons are from the default bootstrap
icons and so they have an icon for github and youtube but you need to make sure that
they're lowercase otherwise it will not work we're going to just do at posit pbc
and so if we render this
we see we get the github link i can click on this get to the github
we also have a youtube link opens up the youtube
that all looks good and we can keep adding things so i could keep adding
sections to this i could add a section for
the second video in the series which was the parameterized
reports and is that navigating to the right it's called parameterized reporting here
and now if we look at the new website we have a new drop down
and it's going to you know show an example of a parameterized report
and these are getting linked to so basically within there's this about.md file
and with that you know when this gets rendered by corto it becomes as we look in this or i guess
you might not see it but if you look in the site information you'll see that it's rendered
you might not see it but if you look in the site information if you looked in like parameterized
reporting it becomes about.html and so in our index file we can reference like parameterized
reporting about.html and basically get it so that if we click this it will get us to the page that
has all this information on it that's cool let's keep seeing what else we can do
another thing we had in the website that i previewed
so if i go back to my index or not index if i go back to the corto.yaml
in the website that we previewed in the navbar there was a section called
youtube tutorials
and this had a menu of
of
youtube links so i could do like text video one and that would have you know the youtube link
corresponding to video one to https and if i look at my index i actually did or no not the index if
i looked at cortocrashcourseabout.md this is the link to that video so i could copy this
paste it in
the href href is i forget what it stands for but it's basically whenever you have a link
that's the source of where the link is going
go to our website we see now we have youtube tutorials video one i click on it
it navigates me to the website one thing you might want it to do is not actually
open this in the same window so one trick that i found helpful is you can also add this
sorry i didn't mean to do that auto complete sometimes you can add this target
parameter and if you specify the special variable underscore blank
and then try clicking youtube video one you see that we have this about page right here
if i click video one now it opens it up in a different link that is a cute cat btw
all right other things we want to do well i want some more theming i want some more branding
i want some more branding so maybe i add like a favicon and a title here
so website title sure keith galley's corto portfolio i think yeah that will
i guess you can add it if you have any titles in any of these pages i think we'll change up this
header corto and python video series that's coming from specifically the index.qmd
oh it's yeah right here so that's kind of specifying that if i wanted to specifically
have my own favicon i go to corto.yaml and i go to favicon
in the previous slideshow video we showed i showed this little sample logo that i created saved in
logos kglogo.svg that will now pop up here so i have my logo
i could also add a logo to the navbar i think if i do navbar logo and i did like logos slash
i added a corto image here too so corto.png
if we look at what this does we see now we get like the corto logo over here
logo over here you could replace this with whatever logo that you wanted
if you think that this is cool and makes sense
let's try to think of other things i like adding a footer
to the website and all of this is documented in you know the the corto docs but if i wanted to
add a page footer i could add page footer copyright 2023 keith galley it's 2025 keith
galley and i can also actually specify like multiple options here so i could do the left side
of the footer is the copyright and the right side is yo yo yo yo yo
did i break it did i specify something wrong
where's the page oh here's the page footer see yo yo yo yo on the right side
left side is copyright 2025 keith galley that looks good
i could also make this instead of docked there's a i think fixed is the other option
or floating
and that would just kind of center everything i kind of like the fixed look so i'm going to keep
it docked
and notice if we turn off the search in the nav bar or in this yeah the nav bar
and we have it active in the sidebar we now get it over here instead of over here i kind of like
the fixed look so i'm going to keep it docked
and we have it active in the sidebar we now get it over here instead of over here
i kind of like it on the top right so i'm going to keep it the way we had it
i'm going to get rid of the search over here
one cool thing i guess one kind of useful thing is you can also specify just three dashes
here as a item and that will create a nice little line break in your sidebar
i'm going to get rid of my logo here i don't think i need that
got our everything we could also easily basically copy our icons here and you know you can start
nesting things here so i can nest our icons down here and we get those same links down here
i'm gonna let's think let's think okay i think the last real thing that's different before we
actually show how we publish this is instead of adding the format and doing theming like this
we can also specify a branding file so if i do brand and then i do brand.yaml
or wherever you have your brand.yaml file so maybe i create a folder
or maybe i just create the file sometimes the nesting of files makes a difference here but
i'll just call this brand.yaml and then i'm going to copy this in from the github website
so we have our brand.yaml i copy it this is all kind of talked about in the most the slideshow
video so you can learn more about the brand.yaml feature there note this is only available in
newer versions of corto so you need to have corto 1.6 or above for this to work but now if we look
at our website we can see that we have a brand.yaml file and we can see that we have a brand.yaml
website we're gonna get this nice sweet you know branded version of the website
which i think looks pretty dang sweet i don't know if i love the border here
of this maybe that was already there i could specify on my sidebar border is false to remove
that if i want so yeah depending on what you think is better i think this looks really sweet though
the brand.yaml is all this it's using the same kg logo
it looks quite quite cool in my opinion and there's even more customization you can do with
your brand.yaml file lots of cool stuff and then the last step really is how do we deploy this
to deploy there's two different options the first is using posit connect cloud
so if i go ahead and add these changes so add brand.yaml
get add brand.yaml git commit minus m final code or let me just make this a little bigger so you
can see or just up on the screen git commit dash m final code from video
push origin starter
so again just to clarify this is all the assets from
those these different projects that you're seeing here
and i guess just to make it fully complete i should just add the
the last few sections so we have also a dashboard section and analytics report section and a
slideshow section so add this i'll do section dashboard section and analytics report section
and a slideshow section so add this i'll do section
jupiter to analytics
report
and that's in we just called it analytics reports
and this is analytics reports we also have a section called this is easier name section called
dashboards that looks all good and we have a section not called data visualization we have
a section called slideshows
and we can delete that and we see we have all these now over there too you could very easily
to make this like your own data portfolio by like switching this icon out with maybe an image of your
face or something like that but looks very very cool we see the different files here so we see
like the cordo slideshow that we walked through in that slideshows video check out all these
individual videos by you know clicking through this website cordo is fun.com to learn more about
how to do these different types of things like like slideshows like this it's really really
powerful stuff on the slideshow point one cool trick i think is useful when you're displaying
slideshows in a website is you can copy the following code snippet into your you know about
dot markdown file whatever markdown file you want to and basically what this will do is i'm going to
real quick render it without it first we have this site and i could click you know cordo presentations
to see the slideshow but it takes me to a different page one thing that's cool that you can
do is we could add this code snippet and example.html is ultimately the html file that's rendered from
example.qmd which is our slideshow and now with this code snippet if we re-render this
we have a nice iframe embedding of the slideshow so you can see the slideshow navigate through the
slideshow right there within your screen which i just feel like it's a nice little trick to know
about dashboards
so
and sometimes i guess the themes don't look as good with
um you know maybe previous themes that you use if you use white light or
dark so there's some additional customization you sometimes will have to do
um but yeah let's just commit this code to
okay so if i wanted to deploy this code i would go corto
i would go to posit connect cloud i have a link to posit connect cloud in the description
and i would do publish i would specify corto my repo is corto portfolio the branch here is actually
called starter did i push that code i did push origin starter that looks good
and primary file doesn't matter here because i don't think it should matter here but
i would recommend putting index.qmd because i think it it reads ultimately your
corto.yaml file so you need to have that connected you'll also need to make sure
you have a requirements.txt in this that has all the libraries that you need
but if you have those things you click publish
it's going to install everything or render everything
might take a minute to render
and we see we got our website all rendered here and what's cool is you could go like full screen
mode here and you could go ahead very easily and share this link so if i like opened up an
incognito window and shared this link uh you know it renders it all the same i can go to any of these
you know it renders it all the same i can go to any of these pages
very easily and if you really wanted to make this a data portfolio i do want to mention that
any analysis you do with your qmd files and any outputs that are you know html-based can be easily
embedded in this website so here we have some the report from the jupyter notebook to analytics
report video and you're seeing a lot of like matplotlib and seaborn charts here but like these
also could be interactive plotly charts that you could zoom in on play around with like this table
right here is interactive so you can also embed the same interactive elements that you can with
any cordo document i wanted to make that just clear quickly my tutorials are all there these
links are here you can share that link you could also just you know go ahead and copy this to get
the same link i'm trying to think of other things this works out of the box with public portfolio
github repos but if you want to deploy from private repos you can you know use a
pro plan you know the basic plan or the enhanced plans for extra types of support there's new
features rolling out in posit connect cloud very frequently so i might recommend checking this out
you know every so often to see what you have access to this is definitely the easiest way
but if you wanted to let's say right now deploy to your own custom domain first you'd want to
acquire a domain i typically do that with namecheap.com but you can use any provider
you could also use netlify.com one thing that's really cool is there's a quarto publish netlify
option and with that you can specify you know sign into your account
uh
and basically so i need to make sure my libraries are all there again
so corto publish netlify
right now this is all living on cortosfund.com but if i wanted to
add a new destination i could like specify my account
it will all render the same kind of way and ultimately you'll end up
on netlify.com and you can you know connect your own domain so if i go to domains
connect your own domain so if i go to domains i can add a register a domain so i could type
in something like like you know my data portfolio dot xyz maybe this domain is
available you can literally just buy it right here from netlify and then like it'll allow you
to connect what you're publishing to this code over here or yeah like as i said i'll show probably
a screen recording of it but like i purchased my domains on namecheap.com and like i just basically
had to copy some additional settings to my namecheap account and then it was able to connect
from that external domain i just don't like having my domains fly or floating in all different spots
but you know here we have a new site and i could very much you know configure it to connect
to a different um you know either just the netlify.app but yeah if you wanted to
add your custom domain you know i could do something here like as i said cortosfund.com
then added the the name servers and then basically it will be connected and you know
you go to cortosfund.com everything that was living locally is here online you can share
it with people a lot of fun you can build a cool data portfolio with this using your qmd files it's
just like i i found it pretty awesome so hopefully you all do as well i think this is the tutorial
though all right well we've deployed our website hopefully you found this video useful hopefully
you found it interesting if you did enjoy it make sure to throw it a thumbs up and subscribe to the
channel to not miss any videos like this in the future i'd be very curious to see what you all
build so if you build any cool websites please share them with me tag me on linkedin tag me on
instagram i would love to see them if you have any questions or suggestions for future videos
please leave them down in the comments but i think that is all we're going to do with it today
this was a lot of fun build a cool looking website till next time everyone peace out